---
title: Analyzing Participation of Students in Online Courses Using Social Network
  Analysis Techniques
venue: Educational Data Mining
names: Reihaneh Rabbany, M. Takaffoli, Osmar R Zaiane
tags:
- Educational Data Mining
link: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4fb130483a0dc60129ec6cd8547eddc034db28a1
author: Reihaneh Rabbany
categories: Publications

---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

There is a growing number of courses delivered using e-learning environments and their online discussions play an important role in collaborative learning of students. Even in courses with a few number of students, there could be thousands of messages generated in a few months within these forums. Manually evaluating the participation of students in such case is a significant challenge, considering the fact that current e-learning environments do not provide much information regarding the structure of interactions between students.There is a recent line of research on applying social network analysis (SNA) techniques to study these interactions. And it is interesting to investigate the practicability of SNA in evaluating participation of students. Here we propose to exploit SNA techniques, including community mining, in order to discover relevant structures in social networks we generate from student communications but also information networks we produce from the content of the exchanged messages. With visualization of these discovered relevant structures and the automated identification of central and peripheral participants, an instructor is provided with better means to assess participation in the online discussions. We implemented these new ideas in a toolbox, named Meerkat-ED. Which prepares and visualizes overall snapshots of the participants in the discussion forums, their interactions, and the leader/peripheral students. Moreover, it creates a hierarchical summarization of the discussed topics, which gives the instructor a quick view of what is under discussion. We believe exploiting the mining abilities of this toolbox would facilitate fair evaluation of students’ participation in online courses.