---
title: Social network analysis and mining to support the assessment of on-line student
  participation
venue: SKDD
names: Reihaneh Rabbany, M. Takaffoli, Osmar R Zaiane
tags:
- SKDD
link: https://doi.org/10.1145/2207243.2207247
author: Reihaneh Rabbany
categories: Publications

---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

There is a growing number of courses delivered using elearning environments and their online discussions play an important role in collaborative learning of students. Even in courses with a few number of students, there could be thousands of messages generated in a few months within these forums. Manually evaluating the participation of students in such case is a significant challenge, considering the fact that current e-learning environments do not provide much information regarding the structure of interactions between students. There is a recent line of research on applying social network analysis (SNA) techniques to study these interactions.
 Here we propose to exploit SNA techniques, including community mining, in order to discover relevant structures in social networks we generate from student communications but also information networks we produce from the content of the exchanged messages. With visualization of these discovered relevant structures and the automated identification of central and peripheral participants, an instructor is provided with better means to assess participation in the online discussions. We implemented these new ideas in a toolbox, named Meerkat-ED, which automatically discovers relevant network structures, visualizes overall snapshots of interactions between the participants in the discussion forums, and outlines the leader/peripheral students. Moreover, it creates a hierarchical summarization of the discussed topics, which gives the instructor a quick view of what is under discussion. We believe exploiting the mining abilities of this toolbox would facilitate fair evaluation of students' participation in online courses.