---
title: Scalable Change Point Detection for Dynamic Graphs
venue: ''
names: Shenyang Huang, Guillaume Rabusseau, Reihaneh Rabbany
tags:
- ''
link: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/58d165b00a7cc20500e3b6b9fe02b603b9e97116
author: Shenyang Huang
categories: Publications

---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

Real world networks often evolve in complex ways over time. Understanding anomalies in dynamic networks is crucial for applications such as traffic accident detection, intrusion identification and detection of ecosystem disturbances. In this work, we focus on the problem of change point detection in dynamic graphs. The goal is to identify time steps where the graph structure deviates significantly from the norm. Despite empirical success of recent methods, building a change point detection method for real world dynamic graphs, which often scale to millions of nodes, remains an open question. To fill this gap, we propose LADdos, a scalable method for change point detection in dynamic graphs. LADdos brings together ideas from two recent works: an accurate change point detection method for graphs called LAD [10] which detects the changes in the full Laplacian spectrum of the graph in each timestamp, and the general framework of network density of states (DOS) [5] which models the distribution of the singular values through efficient approximation methods. In experiments with two common graph models –the Stochastic Block Model (SBM) and the Barabási-Albert (BA) model – we show that LADdos has equal performance to LAD, which is the current state-of-the-art, while being orders of magnitude faster. For instance, on a dynamic graph with total 21 million edges over 150 timestamps, LADdos achieves 100x speedup when compared to LAD.