---
title: Understanding Capacity Saturation in Incremental Learning
venue: Canadian Conference on AI
names: Shenyang Huang, Vincent François-Lavet, Guillaume Rabusseau
tags:
- Canadian Conference on AI
link: https://doi.org/10.21428/594757db.71b1a185
author: Shenyang Huang
categories: Publications

---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

In class-incremental learning, a model continuously learns from a sequential data stream in which new classes are introduced. There are two main challenges in class- incremental learning: catastrophic forgetting and capacity saturation. In this work, we focus on capacity saturation where a learner is unable to achieve good generalization due to its limited capacity. To understand how to increase model capacity, we present the continual architecture design problem where at any given step, a continual learner needs to adapt its architecture to achieve a good balance between performance, computational cost and memory limitations. To address this problem, we propose Continual Neural Architecture Search (CNAS) which takes advantage of the sequential nature of class- incremental learning to efficiently identify strong architectures. CNAS consists of a task network for image classification and a reinforcement learning agent as the meta-controller for architecture adaptation. We also accelerate learning by transferring weights from the previous learning step thus saving a large amount of computational resources. We evaluate CNAS on the CIFAR-100 dataset in several incremental learning scenarios with limited computational power (1 GPU). We empirically demonstrate that CNAS can mitigate capacity saturation and achieve performances comparable with full architecture search while being at least one order of magnitude more efficient.