---
title: Cross-Lingual Dialogue Dataset Creation via Outline-Based Generation
venue: ArXiv 2022
names: Olga Majewska, E. Razumovskaia, E. Ponti, Ivan Vulic, A. Korhonen
tags:
- ArXiv
link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.13405
categories: Publications

---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

Multilingual task-oriented dialogue (TOD) facilitates access to services and information for many (communities of) speakers. Nevertheless, the potential of this technology is not fully realised, as current datasets for multilingual TOD—both for modular and end-toend modelling—suffer from severe limitations. 1) When created from scratch, they are usually small in scale and fail to cover many possible dialogue flows. 2) Translation-based TOD datasets might lack naturalness and cultural specificity in the target language. In this work, to tackle these limitations we propose a novel outline-based annotation process for multilingual TOD datasets, where domainspecific abstract schemata of dialogue are mapped into natural language outlines. These in turn guide the target language annotators in writing a dialogue by providing instructions about each turn’s intents and slots. Through this process we annotate a new large-scale dataset for training and evaluation of multilingual and cross-lingual TOD systems. Our Cross-lingual Outline-based Dialogue dataset (termed COD) enables natural language understanding, dialogue state tracking, and end-toend dialogue modelling and evaluation in 4 diverse languages: Arabic, Indonesian, Russian, and Kiswahili. Qualitative and quantitative analyses of COD versus an equivalent translation-based dataset demonstrate improvements in data quality, unlocked by the outline-based approach. Finally, we benchmark a series of state-of-the-art systems for cross-lingual TOD, setting reference scores for future work and demonstrating that COD prevents over-inflated performance, typically met with prior translation-based TOD datasets.