---
title: A Strong Node Classification Baseline for Temporal Graphs
venue: SDM
names: Farimah Poursafaei, Z. Zilic, Reihaneh Rabbany
tags:
- SDM
link: https://doi.org/10.1137/1.9781611977172.73
code: https://github.com/fpour/TGBase
author: Farimah Poursafaei
categories: 
- Publications
- TGA
excerpt: Here we introduce a robust and effective baseline method for node classification in temporal graphs, serving as a benchmark for evaluating more complex models. This approach is characterized by its simplicity and strong performance in categorizing nodes based on their evolving characteristics within the graph. By addressing the unique challenges posed by temporal graphs, the method provides a clear point of comparison for researchers and practitioners, enhancing the understanding and development of advanced techniques in temporal graph analysis. Its relevance spans various applications, including link prediction and node attribute inference in dynamic networks.


---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

Many real-world complex systems can be modelled by temporal networks. Representation learning on these networks often captures their dynamic evolution and is a first step for performing further analysis, e.g. node classification. Node classification is a fundamental task for graph analysis in general and in the context of temporal graph, is often employed to categories nodes based on their activity patterns. Analysis of existing real world networks from different high-stake domains reveals that the rate of the malicious activities is on uptick, resulting in catastrophic social or economic consequences. This strongly motivates designing accurate node classification methods for temporal graphs.
In this paper, we propose TGBASE, for node classification on weighted temporal networks. TGBASE efficiently extracts key features to consider the structural characteristics of each node and its neighborhood as well as the intensity and timestamp of the interactions among node pairs. These features accurately differentiate different classes of nodes, as shown on eight realworld benchmark datasets, outperforming multiple state-of-theart (SOTA) deep/complex models. Our strong yet simple model is also generic, whereas the SOTA contenders are designed often for their specific (class of) datasets.
