---
title: Party Prediction for Twitter
venue: International Conference on Web and Social Media
names: Kellin Pelrine, Anne Imouza, Zachary Yang, Jacob-Junqi Tian, Sacha L'evy, Gabrielle Desrosiers-Brisebois, Aarash Feizi, C'ecile Amadoro, A. Blais, J. Godbout, Reihaneh Rabbany
tags:
- International Conference on Web and Social Media
link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.13699
author: Kellin Pelrine
categories: 
- Publications
- poli-sci
excerpt: "Partisanship has increasingly become a major point of contention in public discourse online, and as a result, researchers have developed a variety of methods to evaluate the party affiliations of users on social media. In this paper, we evaluate the performance of party prediction tools and propose new methods that are comparable or improve upon existing works."

---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

A large number of studies on social media compare the behaviour of users from different political parties. As a basic step, they employ a predictive model for inferring their political affiliation. The accuracy of this model can change the conclusions of a downstream analysis significantly, yet the choice between different models seems to be made arbitrarily. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive survey and an empirical comparison of the current party prediction practices and propose several new approaches which are competitive with or outperform state-of-the-art methods, yet require less computational resources. Party prediction models rely on the content generated by the users (e.g., tweet texts), the relations they have (e.g., who they follow), or their activities and interactions (e.g., which tweets they like). We examine all of these and compare their signal strength for the party prediction task. This paper lets the practitioner select from a wide range of data types that all give strong performance. Finally, we conduct extensive experiments on different aspects of these methods, such as data collection speed and transfer capabilities, which can provide further insights for both applied and methodological research.