---
title: 'TGB 2.0: A Benchmark for Learning on Temporal Knowledge Graphs and Heterogeneous
  Graphs'
venue: Neural Information Processing Systems
names: J. Gastinger, Shenyang Huang, Mikhail Galkin, Erfan Loghmani, Alipanah Parviz,
  Farimah Poursafaei, Jacob Danovitch, Emanuele Rossi, Ioannis Koutis, Heiner Stuckenschmidt,
  Reihaneh Rabbany, Guillaume Rabusseau
tags:
- Neural Information Processing Systems
link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.09639
webpage: https://tgb.complexdatalab.com/
code: https://github.com/shenyangHuang/TGB
author: Shenyang Huang
categories: 
- Publications
- TGB
excerpt: TGB 2.0 introduces a novel benchmarking framework for evaluating methods for predicting future links on Temporal Knowledge Graphs (TKGs) and Temporal Heterogeneous Graphs (THGs), focusing on large-scale datasets. This framework extends the original Temporal Graph Benchmark by providing eight new datasets spanning five domains, which are significantly larger and more diverse than existing datasets. TGB 2.0 includes a reproducible and realistic evaluation pipeline for multi-relational temporal graphs, addressing the challenges in this area and promoting standardized and reliable benchmarking.


---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

Multi-relational temporal graphs are powerful tools for modeling real-world data, capturing the evolving and interconnected nature of entities over time. Recently, many novel models are proposed for ML on such graphs intensifying the need for robust evaluation and standardized benchmark datasets. However, the availability of such resources remains scarce and evaluation faces added complexity due to reproducibility issues in experimental protocols. To address these challenges, we introduce Temporal Graph Benchmark 2.0 (TGB 2.0), a novel benchmarking framework tailored for evaluating methods for predicting future links on Temporal Knowledge Graphs and Temporal Heterogeneous Graphs with a focus on large-scale datasets, extending the Temporal Graph Benchmark. TGB 2.0 facilitates comprehensive evaluations by presenting eight novel datasets spanning five domains with up to 53 million edges. TGB 2.0 datasets are significantly larger than existing datasets in terms of number of nodes, edges, or timestamps. In addition, TGB 2.0 provides a reproducible and realistic evaluation pipeline for multi-relational temporal graphs. Through extensive experimentation, we observe that 1) leveraging edge-type information is crucial to obtain high performance, 2) simple heuristic baselines are often competitive with more complex methods, 3) most methods fail to run on our largest datasets, highlighting the need for research on more scalable methods.