---
title: Static graph approximations of dynamic contact networks for epidemic forecasting
venue: Scientific Reports
names: Razieh Shirzadkhani, Shenyang Huang, Abby Leung, Reihaneh Rabbany
tags:
- Scientific Reports
link: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-62271-0
author: Shenyang Huang
categories: Publications

---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

Epidemic modeling is essential in understanding the spread of infectious diseases like COVID-19 and devising effective intervention strategies to control them. Recently, network-based disease models have integrated traditional compartment-based modeling with real-world contact graphs and shown promising results. However, in an ongoing epidemic, future contact network patterns are not observed yet. To address this, we use aggregated static networks to approximate future contacts for disease modeling. The standard method in the literature concatenates all edges from a dynamic graph into one collapsed graph, called the *full static* graph. However, the full static graph often leads to severe overestimation of key epidemic characteristics. Therefore, we propose two novel static network approximation methods, *DegMST* and *EdgeMST*, designed to preserve the sparsity of real world contact network while remaining connected. DegMST and EdgeMST use the frequency of temporal edges and the node degrees respectively to preserve sparsity. Our analysis show that our models more closely resemble the network characteristics of the dynamic graph compared to the full static ones. Moreover, our analysis on seven real-world contact networks suggests EdgeMST yield more accurate estimations of disease dynamics for epidemic forecasting when compared to the standard *full static* method.