---
title: "It's the Thought that Counts: Evaluating the Attempts of Frontier LLMs to\
  \ Persuade on Harmful Topics"
venue: ''
openAccessPdf:
  url: ''
  status:
  license:
  disclaimer: 'Notice: This content is from the open access paper or abstract available
    at https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.02873, which is subject to the license by the author
    or copyright owner provided with this content. Please go to the source to verify
    the license and copyright information for your use.'
names: Matthew Kowal, Jasper Timm, J. Godbout, Thomas H Costello, A. Arechar, Gordon
  Pennycook, David Rand, Adam Gleave, Kellin Pelrine
tags:
- ''
link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.02873
author: Kellin Pelrine
categories: Publications

---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

Persuasion is a powerful capability of large language models (LLMs) that both enables beneficial applications (e.g. helping people quit smoking) and raises significant risks (e.g. large-scale, targeted political manipulation). Prior work has found models possess a significant and growing persuasive capability, measured by belief changes in simulated or real users. However, these benchmarks overlook a crucial risk factor: the propensity of a model to attempt to persuade in harmful contexts. Understanding whether a model will blindly ``follow orders'' to persuade on harmful topics (e.g. glorifying joining a terrorist group) is key to understanding the efficacy of safety guardrails. Moreover, understanding if and when a model will engage in persuasive behavior in pursuit of some goal is essential to understanding the risks from agentic AI systems. We propose the Attempt to Persuade Eval (APE) benchmark, that shifts the focus from persuasion success to persuasion attempts, operationalized as a model's willingness to generate content aimed at shaping beliefs or behavior. Our evaluation framework probes frontier LLMs using a multi-turn conversational setup between simulated persuader and persuadee agents. APE explores a diverse spectrum of topics including conspiracies, controversial issues, and non-controversially harmful content. We introduce an automated evaluator model to identify willingness to persuade and measure the frequency and context of persuasive attempts. We find that many open and closed-weight models are frequently willing to attempt persuasion on harmful topics and that jailbreaking can increase willingness to engage in such behavior. Our results highlight gaps in current safety guardrails and underscore the importance of evaluating willingness to persuade as a key dimension of LLM risk. APE is available at github.com/AlignmentResearch/AttemptPersuadeEval