---
title: From Natural Language to Data Science
term: Winter 2026
course_code: COMP 345; LING 345
author: Gaurav Kamath
names: Gaurav Kamath
categories: Teaching
share: false
last_modified_at: 2026-01-02
layout: single
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: "Table of Contents"
tags:
  - Winter 2026
---

* **Course codes:** COMP 345 & LING 345 (Winter 2026)
* **Instructor:** [Gaurav Kamath](https://grvkamath.github.io) [Office Hours: Thursday 12:00-13:00, Rm 304, 1085 Av. Dr. Penfield] [Email: gaurav\<dot\>kamath\<at\>mcgill\<dot\>ca]

  * Note: Please add the `[NL2DS]` tag to any email subject line, to help your instructor respond to you more quickly.

* **Teaching Assistants:** 
  * Jay Gala [jay\<dot\>gala\<at\>mila\<dot\>quebec]
  * Fengyuan Liu [fengyuan\<dot\>liu\<at\>mila\<dot\>quebec]
  * Jessica Ojo [jessica\<dot\>ojo\<at\>mail\<dot\>mcgill\<dot\>ca]
  * Mehar Bhatia [mehar\<dot\>bhatia\<at\>mila\<dot\>quebec]
  * Fahad Amik [fahad\<dot\>amik\<at\>mail\<dot\>mcgill\<dot\>ca]
* **Classroom:** McConnell Engineering Building 204
* **Time:** Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10:05 am – 11:25 am
* **Links:** 
  * [MyCourses: announcements, slides, lecture recordings](https://mycourses2.mcgill.ca/d2l/home/838663)
  * [Slack: assignment discussions, general questions](https://compling345winter2026.slack.com)

# Description
Course Format: The course format is in person unless notified. But lecture recordings will be available on MyCourses.

The last decades have seen phenomenal increases in our scientific and engineering understanding of language from a computational perspective. A large part of this success has been the rapid and unprecedented expansion of different kinds of language data as well as new computational tools for dealing with this data. This course provides an introduction to the data science of language. The emphasis will be on learning basic tools for working with language data for both engineering and scientific applications.

# Goals

The goal of this course is to learn how to think about language data (predominantly raw text) and to work with it computationally. Along the way, we will learn a number of mathematical and computational tools for data collection, representation, processing, modeling, and analysis. The main emphasis of the course will be on transferring theory into practice. By the end of the course, you will know how to process large amounts of text, study the nature of words, search for information, examine statistical relationships between linguistic data, and apply these tools to study scientific questions about language. And, hopefully, along the way, you'll also just have fun :)

# Students will

- Learn how to process text data using Python.
- Learn the fundamentals of data science, including different statistical models.
- Learn how to analyze text data using these statistical methods.
- Learn how to build simple models of language domains.
- Learn how to predict outcomes based on text.
- Learn about the biases of current NLP systems and their implications.

# Prerequisites

Required: Programming background at the level of COMP 202 or equivalent.

Recommended: Programming background at the level of COMP 250 or higher. Mathematics background at the level of MATH 240. Basic calculus and linear algebra will be helpful but not critical.

# Grading

Note that the details below are subject to change.

- Midterm Exam (25%)
- Final Exam (25%) 
- Problem Sets (50%): 4 problem sets equally weighted (12.5% each).
    - **Problem Sets / Assignments must be submitted via Gradescope, not MyCourses.** Failure to submit via Gradescope will be treated as a failure to submit the assignment, and will be subject to the late submission policy detailed below.

**Late Submission Policy for the Problem Sets / Assignments:** Late submissions will be accepted with a penalty, until 72 hours after the original deadline.

- 0-24 hours late: -10%, i.e. the maximum you can score on the assignment is 90%.
- 24-48 hours late: -20%, i.e. the maximum you can score on the assignment is 80%.
- 48-72 hours late: -30%, i.e. the maximum you can score on the assignment is 70%.
- \>72 hours late: Submission not accepted, i.e. you will be given 0% on the assignment.

As a rule, extensions will **not** be granted. However, please reach out if you have a Reasonable Consideration Request, or are going through special circumstances. Final discretion remains with the instructor, but we'll try to be considerate.

**Why does a course like this have exams?** AI tools are increasingly integrated into coding interfaces, and how we write code more generally. This is mostly a good thing: tools like Copilot or ChatGPT can make us drastically more productive, and even offer personalized help when learning to code. But it's still important that you understand the fundamentals yourself, to understand whether a coding agent is implementing what you actually want/need, and to distinguish between good and bad AI-generated code. Unfortunately, in-person exams are the most straightforward way of testing these fundamentals in a way that can't be gamed using AI tools.

**What will the exams be like?** They will be multiple-choice, won't be hard, and won't be designed to contain any trick questions. The idea is simple: if you show up to class regularly, and understand how to implement the code through this course, you should find them extremely easy. If you never show up to class, and completely outsource all coding to AI tools, they'll be hard.


# Schedule

| Lecture | Date | Topic | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Jan 6 | Introduction |  |
| 2 | Jan 8 | Tokenization, Regular Expressions & Syntactic Parses | |
| 3 | Jan 13 | Keywords & Association Metrics |  |
| 4 | Jan 15 | Classification & Regression Models | Assignment 1 Released |
| 5 | Jan 20 | Classification & Regression Models | Add or drop deadline |
| 6 | Jan 22 | Classification & Regression Models | |
| 7 | Jan 27 | Classification & Regression Models |  |
| 8 | Jan 29 | Neural Nets | Assignment 1 Due |
| 9 | Feb 3 |  Vector Representations of Words, Sentences & Documents | Assignment 2 Released  |
| 10 | Feb 5 | Vector Representations of Words, Sentences & Documents | |
| 11 | Feb 10 | Vector Representations of Words, Sentences & Documents |  |
| 12 | Feb 12 | Language Modelling |  |
| 13 | Feb 17 | Language Modelling |  |
| 14 | Feb 19 | Language Modelling | Assignment 2 Due <br> Assignment 3 Released |
| 15 | Feb 24 | Recap Class |  |
| 16 | Feb 26 | **Midterm Exam** |  |
| 17 | Mar 3 | Reading week (No Class) |  |
| 18 | Mar 5 | Reading week (No Class) |  |
| 19 | Mar 10 | Decision Trees & Random Forests |  |
| 20 | Mar 12 | Unsupervised Learning Algorithms |  |
| 21 | Mar 17 | Unsupervised Learning Algorithms |  |
| 22 | Mar 19 | Unsupervised Learning Algorithms |  |
| 23 | Mar 24 | Information Theory | Assignment 3 Due <br> Assignment 4 Released |
| 24 | Mar 26 | Statistical Hypothesis Testing |  |
| 25 | Mar 31 | Ethics & Bias | |
| 26 | Apr 2 | Multilingual NLP |  |
| 27 | Apr 7 | Digital Humanities & Computational Social Sciences |  |
| 28 | Apr 9 | Recap Class (Final Class) |  |
| 29 | Apr 14 | No Class (as per McGill Academic Calendar) | Assignment 4 Due |

<br>

# Generative AI Policy
You may use any Generative AI tool (e.g., ChatGPT, GitHub Copilot, Claude) that helps you better engage with the content of the course, as long as you (i) use them to better engage with course materials, rather than using them do all of your assignments for you; and (ii) declare what tools you used, where you used them, and what you used them for.

Feel free to use any AI tools to:

* Help yourself understand and debug code.
* Write / auto-complete small portions of code.
* Dig deeper on any of the topics covered in class.

But you may NOT:

* Use AI tools to write whole assignments or code files for you.
* Submit AI-generated prose in your assignments.
* Use AI tools without citing them in your assignment.

Inappropriate use of Generative AI may result in penalties on grades or referral to disciplinary authorities. 
(You'll also just struggle on the exams if you try to completely outsource assignments to AI tools.)
If you have any question about appropriate use of AI applications for course work, please contact the instructor during his office hours.

# Language of Submission

In accord with McGill University’s Charter of Students’ Rights, students in this course have the right to submit in English or in French any written work that is to be graded. 

# Academic Integrity

McGill University values academic integrity. Therefore, all students must understand the meaning and consequences of cheating, plagiarism and other academic offences under the Code of Student Conduct and Disciplinary Procedures (see www.mcgill.ca/students/srr/honest/ for more information)

# Inclusivity
As the instructor of this course I endeavor to provide an inclusive learning environment. However, if you experience barriers to learning in this course, do not hesitate to discuss them with me or the Office for Students with Disabilities.

# Extraordinary Circumstances
In the event of extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of McGill University, assessment tasks in a course are subject to change, provided students are sent adequate and timely communications regarding the change.

# Territory Acknowledgment
McGill University is on land which has long served as a site of meeting and exchange amongst Indigenous peoples,
including the Haudenosaunee and Anishinabeg nations.
This history remains relevant to this day, particularly in terms of the current state of Indigenous languages.
And since COMP / LING 345 is about computational approaches to language, it's also specifically relevant to our course. 
I'm trying to organize a guest lecture on some of the language technology work being done in Canada for Indigenous languages: more to come!
